So let's dive into nodejs
now and what better way to start with it then of course from scratch with its basics. In this module,
you will learn how the web actually works.
This will only be a brief refresher
but since we will of course use nodejs in this course to build a server, a web application and write
server side code, we obviously have to make sure we all understand how the web works and which role nodejs
plays in that bigger picture.
Now this will only be a brief refresher,
obviously we'll then dive into creating such a nodejs
server and running
nodejs
code when requests are reaching that server
and of course, we'll also send back responses.
For this we'll also use node core modules, like the file system module you saw in the first course section.
We'll use another very important core module in this section which is related to creating such a
web server.
Now as I already mentioned, an important part of creating a web server is of course that we're able to
handle requests and responses so that you learned how you can use nodejs and the many features that
offers to accept incoming requests and do something with them,
for example parse them and how to send back responses,
these are crucial things you've got to know. Now related to all of that,
we'll learn how nodejs uses asynchronous code and a concept called the event loop to stay reactive
and ensure that our script never slows down and always works just fine.
So with that, let's dive into nodejs.